Let's talk about cleaning your space that's not particularly exciting but it is a very important part
of how you get the best guest experiences.
And it's one of the most common tripping points I've noticed with new house and it's something I definitely
tripped up on.
The cleaning is crucial.
That's the title of this lecture because it is absolutely crucial.
A lot of you think like oh my space is clean.
That's the biggest problem is that the vast majority of people don't know what to clean absolutely is.
Now when you're running out your space you're going to be competing with hotels you're competing with
people who run professional bed and breakfast.
When you say clean do you mean clean as in my friend could stay over for the night.
And they wouldn't complain about the mess.
Or do you mean this is as clean as it would be in a hotel.
You need to be in the second category.
When I first started cleaning my apartment what I would do is I would vacuum I would wipe down the counters
clean out the bathroom put in new toilet paper clean out the kitchen clean the dishes that I thought
was everything I needed to do.
I could not have been more wrong.
That is about 50 percent of what you should do.
Now what I recognize is that if people even get the slightest feeling of grungy ness that's going to
often result in a low review for your cleanliness rating and possibly a bad review.
What you want to do is you really really want to go all out when you do your cleanings I suggest you
make a list of everything that needs to be cleaned and listed out.
I also suggest that you find someone else to clean your apartment because over time if you do every
single cleaning it's going to drive you crazy.
Because I think because the attention to detail you need to have a space that's going to maximize the
guest experience.
It's kind of insane and it's not something that you really want to deal with once you get to a point
where you're charging a lot of money.
It's very easy for someone to learn how to clean your space and to do it professionally whether or not
you choose to use a service is up to you.
You're going to pay more but it's going to be more convenient if you want to work with one individual
person you might need to spend a couple hours with them showing them how to clean it properly.
But they're going to be cheaper and possibly less reliable depending on the person.
Now when I go back and I clean my apartment I do everything.
This is a word that I want you to keep in your mind detailing.
You are literally going after the details of your space.
I wipe not just the countertops I wipe the legs of my coffee table all white the corners of the bed
the wooden part of the bed I'll vacuum and then I'll use a sweeper because a wet sweater on a hard floor
makes this kind of shine look to it.
You don't just clean the dishes you then clean the sink itself.
That was something before I said oh no dishes while somebody is coming in they're going to want it to
look like it's brand new so clean the sink as well.
Have you ever been to a real estate open house.
You want to make it look as close to that as possible.
That's why I suggest when you do have problems like scuff scrapes or things and break try to fix as
quickly as possible and try to figure out a cheap easy way of doing this because it's probably going
to happen in the future.
This is just something that a lot of people really underestimate.
And this is one thing that I experienced over and over and it took me the longest time to learn was
that a stray hair will ruin your day.
Have you made a mental catalog of every single piece of hair in your apartment.
I'm not saying you absolutely have to but if one of them slips your mind and a guest goes into a space
that had a lot of money for and they see a hair.
I've never seen some of the reactions I've had of guests what you would think is ridiculous but for
them that's absolutely a no no deal breaker.
Even if everything was pristine the ivory on your toilet was just shining if they see a hair that makes
them think that they're staying in a frat house.
That's one thing you need to look at individual details.
Now Sarah suggested using white sheets because white sheets look professional they look clean and also
said that the flip side of this is that white sheets also get dirty much more quickly.
So you need to figure out a way of remedying this.
One tip I love using is for your pads use a lint roller.
So what you can do is you can wash your sheets the dryer should remove the lint when you put it up.
You might have some stray Fuzzy's a Lent roller if you just run it over it it'll grab it and even if
you run it over areas you don't even see land you'll still end up grabbing a ton of land and you just
think to yourself Wow I just save myself a lot of time.
You need to be a lot more anal than you think.
Or you need to find someone who's really specific about the space to give you an idea when someone says
oh I'm going to clean your space.
They say I was going to take an hour an hour is roughly how long they should spend in say a 400 square
foot space.
My apartment is about 3500 square feet tall 200 square feet.
And so I expect in order to do a good job they need to do about three hours three and a half hours so
it might seem to you like oh you know just throw stuff over here and you are safe over here.
And that's done just run the vacuum over it.
It's not like going through the motions you need to look at it and think does it look like the colon
unless you'd expect it of a hotel.
Is this like the cleanliness I expect out of a professional space that's used to rent out to people.
I remember paying a lot of money.
When you do the cleaning please put a lot of thought into who you use to clean it.
And if you're doing it yourself make sure that you go over every detail.
Tiny things like organizing things.
If you have a desk organizing the paper and the pencils on the desk will make a huge impression.
Think about the way that you fold the sheets on the bed.
Think about the way that you present the pillows on the bed.
Really small things like this that at first it takes some thought but once you get it down you'll just
know that these are the things you have to hit.
And this is the quality that you're going to have to match in order to get good reviews so don't be
surprised if you put in a half cleaning you're going to get a bad review.
Please don't expect that you're going to have to spend three hours yourself every time you switch someone
out get someone else to clean it for you.
I use a service I pay $60 for three hours I pay them $20 an hour I pay them extra because I want them
to care more about the job and I want them to really be invested in making this very clean when I give
them extra time and I make sure that they stay for that amount of time because I outsource it like that.
I don't actually have to spend any time on.
So if you work it will work out fine.
Just keep in mind that you need to try to retain the utmost cleanliness.
Absolutely no foreign hires.
I can't say that had enough any questions just post in the group discussion send me a private message.